Killing/Running Processes and Programs: 


Find processes by name:

command: ps (shows the current processes of the terminal session)
command: ps -a (shows the processes of all users)
command: ps aux (shows all the processes not generated by the termnal session)
command: pgrep httpd
command: ps aux | grep <process name, etc>

**Customize the columns to display in the command.
(ppid = parent process id, the parent process of all other child processes.
a ppid = 1 signifies that it is the parent process)
"""
PID  PPID NICE ProcessName
1111 1    0    sshd
1112 1111 0    sshd
"""
command: ps -eo pid,ppid,ni,comm,[...other values]
command: ps -eo pid,ppid,ni,comm,[...other values] | grep <process name>




Kill a process (not tied to the terminal session. These are full on .service configured programs): 

1. find a process using ps ..
2. command: ps aux | grep <process>
3. command: kill <pid>

Check out kill -l to show a list of process signals.
Kill a process using a specific signal.
command: kill <process signal number> <pid>




Sending jobs into the background/foreground:

We can send a command into the background using & at the end of each command.
We can schedule jobs to be run into a queue using the & command.
command: jobs (shows the jobs running with the [job num]+ in the list)
command: <command> & (sends the jobs (programs) to the background)
command: fg %<job num> (will send the job back into the foreground)



Changing Job Statuses: 

1. Terminate a job 
command: kill -9 %<job number>
2. Resume a job
command: kill -18 %<job number>
3. Stop a job
command: kill -19 %<job number>





Arranging the Priority of Processes: 

nice: configured to automatically set the priority for a process. 
1. the PR value is a process defined by the user. (0-99)
    rt is also a process value that shows the process running in realtime
2. the NI value is ranges from -20 +19
to assign a nice value before the execution of a command: 
command: nice -n <nice value> <command>

renice: reconfigure the priority for a process while its already in use. 
to readjust a nice value of a running process: 
(remember, we can check the pid using: ps -eo pid,ni,comm | grep <process name>)
command: renice -n <nice value> -p <process id>

Rearranging All process that run through a particular user:  
command: renice -n <nice value> -u <user name>



Finding a PID by Port (or other networking terms): 
command: lsof -i:<port#>

